README.md, before:

# Shopify Recommendations Ai

## Prerequisites

- Install Google Cloud Platform CLI and authenticate
- Create a private app for your shopify store

## Setup Google Cloud Infrastructure

- Create and enable a new project

```bash
    export PROJECT_ID=recommendations-ai-1234
    gcloud projects create ${PROJECT_ID} --name recommendations-ai 
    gcloud config set project ${PROJECT_ID}
```

- Link a billing account in the console
- Enable the recommendations api

```bash
    gcloud services enable recommendationengine.googleapis.com
```

- [Create a service account in the GCP console](https://cloud.google.com/recommendations-ai/docs/setting-up#service-account)
- On the recs AI dashboard
    - create an unregistered API key to log user events
    - create a registered API key to request predictions
- Initialize firebase and select your project

```bash
    firebase init
```

- Set environment variables for your project

```bash
export RECS_EVENT_KEY=<your recs event key>
export RECS_PREDICT_KEY=<your predict key>
export SHOPIFY_URL=<your website homepage>
export SHOPIFY_SHOP_NAME=<your shop name>
export SHOPIFY_API_KEY=<your private app api key>
export SHOPIFY_APP_PASSWORD=<your private app password>
export SHOPIFY_CURRENCY_CODE=<currency code for products in shopify admin console>
export ACCESS_TOKEN=<your default application token>

firebase functions:config:set shopify.url=${SHOPIFY_URL} shopify.shop_name=${SHOPIFY_SHOP_NAME} shopify.api_key=${SHOPIFY_API_KEY} shopify.password=${SHOPIFY_APP_PASSWORD} recs.event_key=${RECS_EVENT_KEY} recs.predict_key=${RECS_PREDICT_KEY} gcp.default_access_token=${ACCESS_TOKEN}
firebase functions:config:get > .runtimeconfig.json
```

- Deploy cloud functions for shopify catalog syncing, event logging and predictions requests

```bash
firebase deploy --only functions
```

## Record user events on your shopify storefront

- Go to store > themes > edit theme code
- Paste our google analytics tracking code directly under the <head> tag in your theme.liquid file

```html
<!-- Google Analytics & uid tracking -->
<script>
(function(i,s,o,g,r,a,m){i['GoogleAnalyticsObject']=r;i[r]=i[r]||function(){
(i[r].q=i[r].q||[]).push(arguments)},i[r].l=1*new Date();a=s.createElement(o),
m=s.getElementsByTagName(o)[0];a.async=1;a.src=g;m.parentNode.insertBefore(a,m)
})(window,document,'script','https://www.google-analytics.com/analytics.js','ga');

ga('create', '<GOOGLE ANALYTICS ID>', 'auto');
ga('set', 'userId', '{{customer.id}}'); // Set the user ID using signed-in user_id.
</script>
```

- Add `./shopify_scripts/recommendation_events.js` & `./shopify_scripts/recommendation_requests.js` to the `assets` directory in your theme
- Load the new javascript assets in your `theme.liquid` file under `<script src="{{ 'theme.js' | asset_url }}" defer="defer"></script>`

```html
<script src="{{ 'recommendations_events.js' | asset_url }}" onload="pageVisit()"></script>
<script src="{{ 'recommendations_requests.js' | asset_url }}"></script>
```
- Log all kinds of user events in your theme code (see ToDo section below)
- Deploy event logging code and wait 1 week to record data
- Create models in recommendations Ai dashboard

## Serve recommendations to your users

- Have a front end developer add code to your theme to request and serve recommendations in the customer journey

## ToDo

- [ ] Sync catalog
    - [x] Schedule product catalog updates with cloud function
    - [x] Add required catalog fields
    - [x] Add optional catalog fields
    - [x] Add all possible custom product features
    - [ ] Add category hierarchies based on shopify collections
- [ ] Serve recommendations
    - [x] Retrieve recently viewed recommendations via post request
    - [x] Retrieve recently viewed recommendations json response on shopify site
    - [x] Hide API key from browsers with restricted cloud function
    - [x] Render recommendations in theme from response
    - [ ] In a separate HTML file, render recommendations identically to Hexxee page
    - [ ] Render recs on shopify site professionally
- [ ] Record user events
    - [x] Trigger required events in shopify theme code
        - [x] detail-page-view (product.liquid)
        - [ ] added-to-cart (theme.js `/cart/add.js` and `cart/update.js` or webhook)
        - [x] home-page-view (index.liquid)
        - [x] purchase-complete (`order payment` webhook gives all data)
    - [x] Trigger encouraged events in shopify theme code
        - [x] checkout-start (`onClick` to checkout button)
        - [x] category-page-view (collection.liquid)
        - [ ] remove-from-cart (theme.js `/cart/change.js` and `cart/update.js`)
        - [x] search (search.liquid)
        - [x] shopping-cart-page-view (cart.liquid)
    - [ ] Trigger nice-to-have events in shopify theme code
        - [x] page-visit (onload method of js script loader)
        - [ ] refund (`refunds/create` webhook)
        - [ ] add-to-list (not available for Hexxee)
        - [ ] remove-from-list (not available for Hexxee)
    - [x] Complete required event payloads
        - [x] detail-page-view
        - [x] added-to-cart
        - [x] home-page-view
        - [x] purchase-complete
    - [x] Complete encouraged event payloads
        - [x] checkout-start
        - [x] category-page-view
        - [x] remove-from-cart
        - [x] search
        - [x] shopping-cart-page-view ()
    - [ ] Complete nice-to-have event payloads
        - [ ] page-visit (requires all products on the visited page)
        - [ ] refund (webhook can trigger but no UID)
        - [x] add-to-list (not available for Hexxee)
        - [x] remove-from-list (not available for Hexxee)
    - [x] Hide API key from browsers with restricted cloud function
- [ ] Start AB test
    - [ ] Add feature flags to turn recs on or off for shopify site
- [ ] Minimum public application requirements
    - [ ] Save clientId and customerId to my backend using script tag
    - [ ] Capture required user events with script tags and webhooks
    - [ ] Load tracking code and javascript functions with script tags
    - [ ] Render recommendations with script tags

## Comparison

|       | Ollie | Certona | Shopify |
|-------|-------|---------|
| Setup | non-technical DIY in <10 mins | Contact team for custom integration | no setup |
| Price | $X per recommendations request (eg $150/month @ 60,000 sessions/month) | $10000's/month | free |
| Max products | unlimited | unlimited | 5000 |
| Types of recs | home, pdp, cart, recently viewed | home, pdp, cart, recently viewed| pdp, recently viewed |
| Custom user & product features | yes | yes | no |

Commit message:

moving cart update triggers to backend

README.md, after:

# Shopify Recommendations Ai

## Prerequisites

- Install Google Cloud Platform CLI and authenticate
- Create a private app for your shopify store

## Setup Google Cloud Infrastructure

- Create and enable a new project

```bash
    export PROJECT_ID=recommendations-ai-1234
    gcloud projects create ${PROJECT_ID} --name recommendations-ai 
    gcloud config set project ${PROJECT_ID}
```

- Link a billing account in the console
- Enable the recommendations api

```bash
    gcloud services enable recommendationengine.googleapis.com
```

- [Create a service account in the GCP console](https://cloud.google.com/recommendations-ai/docs/setting-up#service-account)
- On the recs AI dashboard
    - create an unregistered API key to log user events
    - create a registered API key to request predictions
- Initialize firebase and select your project

```bash
    firebase init
```

- Set environment variables for your project

```bash
export RECS_EVENT_KEY=<your recs event key>
export RECS_PREDICT_KEY=<your predict key>
export SHOPIFY_URL=<your website homepage>
export SHOPIFY_SHOP_NAME=<your shop name>
export SHOPIFY_API_KEY=<your private app api key>
export SHOPIFY_APP_PASSWORD=<your private app password>
export SHOPIFY_CURRENCY_CODE=<currency code for products in shopify admin console>
export ACCESS_TOKEN=<your default application token>

firebase functions:config:set shopify.url=${SHOPIFY_URL} shopify.shop_name=${SHOPIFY_SHOP_NAME} shopify.api_key=${SHOPIFY_API_KEY} shopify.password=${SHOPIFY_APP_PASSWORD} recs.event_key=${RECS_EVENT_KEY} recs.predict_key=${RECS_PREDICT_KEY} gcp.default_access_token=${ACCESS_TOKEN}
firebase functions:config:get > .runtimeconfig.json
```

- Deploy cloud functions for shopify catalog syncing, event logging and predictions requests

```bash
firebase deploy --only functions
```

## Record user events on your shopify storefront

- Go to store > themes > edit theme code
- Paste our google analytics tracking code directly under the <head> tag in your theme.liquid file

```html
<!-- Google Analytics & uid tracking -->
<script>
(function(i,s,o,g,r,a,m){i['GoogleAnalyticsObject']=r;i[r]=i[r]||function(){
(i[r].q=i[r].q||[]).push(arguments)},i[r].l=1*new Date();a=s.createElement(o),
m=s.getElementsByTagName(o)[0];a.async=1;a.src=g;m.parentNode.insertBefore(a,m)
})(window,document,'script','https://www.google-analytics.com/analytics.js','ga');

ga('create', '<GOOGLE ANALYTICS ID>', 'auto');
ga('set', 'userId', '{{customer.id}}'); // Set the user ID using signed-in user_id.
</script>
```

- Add `./shopify_scripts/recommendation_events.js` & `./shopify_scripts/recommendation_requests.js` to the `assets` directory in your theme
- Load the new javascript assets in your `theme.liquid` file under `<script src="{{ 'theme.js' | asset_url }}" defer="defer"></script>`

```html
<script src="{{ 'recommendations_events.js' | asset_url }}" onload="pageVisit()"></script>
<script src="{{ 'recommendations_requests.js' | asset_url }}"></script>
```
- Log all kinds of user events in your theme code (see ToDo section below)
- Deploy event logging code and wait 1 week to record data
- Create models in recommendations Ai dashboard

## Serve recommendations to your users

- Have a front end developer add code to your theme to request and serve recommendations in the customer journey

## ToDo

- [ ] Sync catalog
    - [x] Schedule product catalog updates with cloud function
    - [x] Add required catalog fields
    - [x] Add optional catalog fields
    - [x] Add all possible custom product features
    - [ ] Add category hierarchies based on shopify collections
- [ ] Serve recommendations
    - [x] Retrieve recently viewed recommendations via post request
    - [x] Retrieve recently viewed recommendations json response on shopify site
    - [x] Hide API key from browsers with restricted cloud function
    - [x] Render recommendations in theme from response
    - [ ] In a separate HTML file, render recommendations identically to Hexxee page
    - [ ] Render recs on shopify site professionally
- [ ] Record user events
    - [x] Trigger required events in shopify theme code
        - [x] detail-page-view (product.liquid)
        - [x] added-to-cart (theme.js `/cart/add.js` and `cart/update.js` or webhook)
        - [x] home-page-view (index.liquid)
        - [x] purchase-complete (`order payment` webhook gives all data)
    - [x] Trigger encouraged events in shopify theme code
        - [x] checkout-start (`onClick` to checkout button)
        - [x] category-page-view (collection.liquid)
        - [x] removed-from-cart (theme.js `/cart/change.js` and `cart/update.js`)
        - [x] search (search.liquid)
        - [x] shopping-cart-page-view (cart.liquid)
    - [ ] Trigger nice-to-have events in shopify theme code
        - [x] page-visit (onload method of js script loader)
        - [ ] refund (`refunds/create` webhook)
        - [ ] add-to-list (not available for Hexxee)
        - [ ] remove-from-list (not available for Hexxee)
    - [x] Complete required event payloads
        - [x] detail-page-view
        - [x] added-to-cart
        - [x] home-page-view
        - [x] purchase-complete
    - [x] Complete encouraged event payloads
        - [x] checkout-start
        - [x] category-page-view
        - [x] remove-from-cart
        - [x] search
        - [x] shopping-cart-page-view ()
    - [ ] Complete nice-to-have event payloads
        - [ ] page-visit (requires all products on the visited page)
        - [ ] refund (webhook can trigger but no UID)
        - [x] add-to-list (not available for Hexxee)
        - [x] remove-from-list (not available for Hexxee)
    - [x] Hide API key from browsers with restricted cloud function
- [ ] Start AB test
    - [ ] Add feature flags to turn recs on or off for shopify site
- [ ] Hexxee application requirements
    - [x] Save clientId, customerId and cartId to my backend using a cloud function
    - [ ] Log addToCart & removedFromCart from cloud function webhook
    - [ ] Log purchaseComplete from webhook
    - [ ] Load tracking code and javascript functions with script tags
    - [ ] Render recommendations with script tags
- [ ] Minimum public application requirements
    - [ ] Save clientId and customerId to my backend using script tag
    - [ ] Capture required user events with script tags and webhooks
    - [ ] Keep track of latest shopping cart json with webhook cloud functions. Query object when you need to determine how the cart changed.
    - [ ] Load tracking code and javascript functions with script tags
    - [ ] Render recommendations with script tags

## Comparison

|       | Ollie | Certona | Shopify |
|-------|-------|---------|
| Setup | non-technical DIY in <10 mins | Contact team for custom integration | no setup |
| Price | $X per recommendations request (eg $150/month @ 60,000 sessions/month) | $10000's/month | free |
| Max products | unlimited | unlimited | 5000 |
| Types of recs | home, pdp, cart, recently viewed | home, pdp, cart, recently viewed| pdp, recently viewed |
| Custom user & product features | yes | yes | no |
